---
layout: post
authors: ["devcrypted"]
media_subpath: /assets/img/
pin: false
video_prefix: https://youtu.be/
playlist_prefix: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=
github_prefix: https://github.com/devcrypted/
youtube_logo: <i class="fa-brands fa-youtube"></i>

# Should be changed according to post
published: true
title: "PowerShell 101 - Introduction to Scripting & Automation!"
permalink: introduction-to-automation-using-powershell
date: 2024-08-25 00:00 +0530
categories: ["Automation Using PowerShell"]
tags: ["PowerShell", "Scripting", "Course Introduction", "Automation"]
image: headers/powershell-101.png
description: This is an Introduction video to a video series on Scripting and Automation using PowerShell in Hindi

# Variables
video_id: 6wjZRU3YE1k
playlist_id: PL2JBbPWIA_TooSJfi2yq4zH1jM8LT_I1X
github_repo: powershell-demo
---

- [<i class="fa-brands fa-github"></i> &nbsp; GitHub Repository]({{page.github_prefix}}{{page.github_repo}})
- [<i class="fa-brands fa-youtube"></i> &nbsp; Watch on YouTube]({{page.video_prefix}}{{page.video_id}})
- [<i class="fa-solid fa-list"></i> &nbsp; YouTube Playlist]({{page.playlist_prefix}}{{page.playlist_id}})

---

{% include embed/youtube.html id=page.video_id %}

---

## WHY POWERSHELL?

1. Comes preinstalled with Windows OS
2. Platform independent (Windows/Linux/Mac)
3. Learn Programming easily
4. Automate repetitive work
5. Look cool within team
6. Manage Office 365
7. Backup Automation
8. Manage Active Directory

## FEW AUTOMATION IDEAS

1. Excel sheets management
2. Files & folders management
3. Databases management
4. Emails management
5. Browsers & API requests
6. Files download
7. VMware management
8. Manage Azure/GCP/AWS cloud platforms
9. Manage Windows/Linux/Mac OS
10. Schedule tasks

## WHAT IS POWERSHELL?

PowerShell is a task automation and configuration management program from Microsoft, consisting of a command-line shell and the associated scripting language.
Initially a Windows component only, known as Windows PowerShell, it was made open-source and cross-platform on August 18, 2016, with the introduction of PowerShell Core. The former is built on the.NET Framework, the latter on.NET.

## APPLICATIONS OF SCRIPTING LANGUAGES

- To automate certain tasks in a program
- Extracting information from a data set
- Less code intensive as compared to traditional programming languages

## APPLICATIONS OF PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES

- They typically run inside a parent program like scripts
- More compatible while integrating code with mathematical models
- Languages like JAVA can be compiled and then used on any platform

## HOW TO OPEN POWERSHELL?

1. Click on Windows icon and search for `PowerShell`
2. Click on `Windows PowerShell` in search results.

## TIPS

- You can use `Ctrl + Scroll Up` to increase text size. `Ctrl + Scroll Down` to decrease text size.
- You can use `cls` command to clear the screen. You can also use shortcut `Ctrl + L` for this.
- You can use `exit` command to exit from the terminal.
- You can download `Windows Terminal` from Microsoft Store for more features like color themes, etc.

## HOW TO START/STOP PROCESS/PROGRAM USING POWERSHELL?

- You can use command `start <process-name>` to start a program. E.g. `start notepad`, `start explorer`, `start calc`, etc.
- To stop the program, you can simply type any of
  - `stop -name <program-name>`
  - `stop <process-id>`
  - `kill -name <program-name>`
  - `kill <process-id>`
- To search existing running program, you can type `ps | ? Name -Like '*<keyword>*'`. E.g.
  - `ps | ? Name -Like '*cal*'`
  - `ps | ? Name -Like '*note*'`
